## HTTP

#### 1. Which Protocol Is Used By RESTful Web Services?
- RESTful web services make use of HTTP protocol as a medium of communication between client and server.


#### 2. What Is Messaging In RESTful Web Services?
- RESTful web services make use of HTTP protocol as a medium of communication between client and server. The client sends a message in the form of an HTTP Request.
- In response, the server transmits the HTTP Response. This technique is called Messaging. These messages contain message data and metadata i.e. information about the message itself.



#### 3. State The Core Components Of An HTTP Request?
- Five key elements.
    1. The Verb which indicates HTTP methods such as GET, PUT, POST, DELETE.
    2. URI stands for Uniform Resource Identifier (URI).It is the identifier for the resource on the server.
    3. HTTP Version which indicates HTTP version, for example-HTTP v1.1.
    4. Request Header carries metadata (as key-value pairs) for the HTTP Request message. Metadata could be a client (or browser) type, the format that client supports, message body format, and cache settings.
    5. Request Body indicates the message content or resource representation.



#### 4. State The Core Components Of An HTTP Response?
- Four key elements.
    1. Status/Response Code – Indicates Server status for the resource present in the HTTP request.For example, 404 means resource not found and 200 means response is ok.
    2. HTTP Version – Indicates HTTP version, for example-HTTP v1.1.
    3. Response Header – Contains metadata for the HTTP response message stored in the form of key-value pairs. For example, content length, content type, response date, and server type.
    4. Response Body – Indicates response message content or resource representation.



#### 5. Name The Most Commonly Used HTTP Methods Supported By REST?
1. `GET` - Request a resource at the request-URL. It should not contain a request body as it will get discarded.
2. `POST` – Submits information to the service for processing. Typically returns the modified or new resource.
3. `PUT` – Updates the resource located from the request-URL
4. `DELETE` – Removes the resource located from the request-URL.
5. `OPTIONS` - Indicates the supported techniques.
6. `HEAD` – Returns meta information about the request URL.


#### 6. Mention, Whether You Can Use GET Request Instead Of PUT, To Create A Resource?
- No, you shouldn’t use a PUT or POST method. Instead, apply the GET operation which has view-only rights.


#### 7. Is There Any Difference Between PUT And POST Operations? Explain It.
- `PUT` and `POST` operation are almost same. The only difference between the two is in the terms of the result generated by them.
- `PUT` operation is idempotent while `POST` operation can give a different result.
- Example:
  1. PUT puts a file or resource at a particular URI and exactly at that URI. If the resource already exists, then PUT updates it. If it’s a first-time request, then PUT creates one.
  2. POST sends data to a particular URI and expects the resource at that URI to deal with the request. The web server at this point can decide what to do with the data in the context of specified resource.


#### 8. What Purpose Does The OPTIONS Method Serve For The RESTful Web Services?
- This method lists down all the operations a web service supports. It makes read-only requests to the server.


## Sources:
- [api interview questions](http://www.techbeamers.com/rest-api-interview-questions-answers/)
